
  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Bold text is denoted by =equal signs=.

  Important recipes are marked with a Key symbol in the original. That
  mark is indicated here by the text (KEY)

  Some minor changes to the text are noted at the end of the book.




[Illustration:
                                                  _Betty Crocker_
                                                  PICTURE _Cooky Book_

                                                 128 of the most
                                                 popular tested
                                                 recipes from her
                                                 collection ... with
                                                 70 “how-to-do” tips,
                                                 50 success pointers
                                                 and 175 illustrations]




                                           _If you wish extra copies
                                           of this book, send 25c
                                           for each to: Betty Crocker,
                                           General Mills,
                                           Department 430,
                                           623 Marquette Avenue,
                                           Minneapolis 1, Minnesota._

                           This offer may be withdrawn without notice.

Copyright 1948, by General Mills, Inc. “Betty Crocker”, “_Kitchen-tested_”,
and “_Breakfast of Champions_”, are registered trade marks of General Mills.

                                                     Printed in U.S.A.




_Dear Friend_:


Here is our _newest_ and _fullest_ collection of cooky recipes ...
our answer to thousands of requests from homemakers who have learned
that _everybody loves cookies_! We give you many hints, shortcuts,
and tricks that save you time and work ... everything that will make
cooky-baking _so_ easy for you.

In this book you’ll find _every type_ of cooky—all the favorites our
Staff has discovered in our years of testing in the General Mills
kitchens. Testing, of course ... testing and re-testing ... is the
real “success secret” behind all our recipes. Why, we often spend
_weeks_ testing and perfecting just one single recipe! We make the
recipe over and over again, but each time some _one_ change is made
that the Staff feels might improve it. In addition, we try out any
suggestions from our homemaker-testers. Finally, when we’re positive
we’ve got the best possible recipe, we release that recipe to you.

Now before you start to bake, be sure you look at the “how-to-do”
pages immediately following. But you’ll find good help on _every_
page—for we have included _all_ the little secrets for success that
we have been gathering for years! If you follow these suggestions and
our simplified and exact recipes, we know you’ll agree with us that
_cooky-making is fun_!

                                                      Betty Crocker
                                                      of General Mills




[Illustration]


Our Staff would love to have you visit our colorful new quarters on
the fifth floor of the General Mills Building in Minneapolis.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

We are so proud of our five new kitchens! The Terrace Kitchen,
pictured above, is used for general recipe testing and also for the
preparation of luncheons to be served to special guests in our Early
American Dining Room.

We also have a Kamera Kitchen for preparing foods for photography; a
striking Polka Dot Kitchen for appliance testing; Tomorrow’s Kitchen
for testing new food products and baking methods; and a Products
Control Kitchen for the baking tests on our flours, quick mixes,
etc. You’ll love our Tasting Bar, where we give recipes critical
“taste-tests” to be sure they are perfect!

Don’t forget—if you are ever in Minneapolis, you will find a most
warm welcome here!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




_How to Get PERFECT Results from Recipes in this Book_....


[Illustration:
  =1 Read Recipe Carefully!= Every word of it. And do be _sure_ to
  see if there’s anything to be done before you start mixing ... like
  chopping nuts or melting chocolate.]

[Illustration:
  =2 Look at the Pictures!= They give you “know how” you need for
  every step.]

[Illustration:
  =3 Turn on the Heat!= If the cookies are to be baked immediately
  after mixing, see that the oven is heated to correct temperature.]

[Illustration:
  =4 Get Your Ingredients Together!= Saves time and steps to have
  them all in one place.]

[Illustration:

  =5 Collect Utensils, Too!= Gather together all you’ll need ... from
  the flour sifter to the baking pan.]

[Illustration:
  =6 Measure as Exactly as a Druggist= follows a doctor’s
  prescription! Two minutes spent measuring carefully may save you
  hours of grief.]

      _Cooking success is up to you!
        If you’ll take pains to measure true,
      Use Standard cups and spoons all the way.
        And then level off—it’ll always pay!_

[Illustration:
  Use squares of paper when sifting, measuring, etc.]

[Illustration:
  Use straight-edged knife for “leveling off.”]

[Illustration:
  =Dry Measuring Cup= has no rim ... 1-cup line is even with top.

  Use for any dry ingredients or shortening.]

[Illustration:
  =Liquid Measuring Cup= ... has rim above the 1-cup line.

  Use for measuring any liquid ingredients.]

[Illustration:
  =Graduated Measuring Cups= ... ¼, ⅓, ½, 1 cup.

  Use for part-cups of any dry ingredients or shortenings.]

[Illustration:
  =Measuring Spoons= ... ¼, ½, and 1 teaspoon, 1 tablespoon.

  Use for less than ¼ cup of any ingredient.]




HERE’S HOW WE MEASURE


[Illustration: FLOUR

  =1= Sift flour through large open sifter (to aerate it) onto square
  of paper before measuring.]

[Illustration:
  =2= Then spoon sifted flour lightly into a “dry” measuring cup ...
  heaping it up.]

[Illustration:
  =3= Level off cup with straight-edged knife. Don’t shake cup. This
  is important!]


[Illustration: SUGAR

  =1= =White Granulated Sugar= needs sifting only if lumpy.
  Spoon lightly into “dry” measuring cup. Level it off with a
  straight-edged knife. Don’t knock or tap cup.]

[Illustration:
  =2= =Brown Sugar.= If it’s lumpy, press through coarse sieve; or
  heat in slow oven; or crush lumps with rolling pin. Pack into “dry”
  measuring cup just enough to hold its shape. Level off.]

[Illustration:
  =3= =Confectioners’ Sugar.= Press through sieve to remove
  lumps. Spoon lightly into “dry” measuring cup. Level off with
  straight-edged knife. Don’t shake cup.]

  =Baking Powder=, =Soda=, =Salt=, =Cornstarch=, =Cream of Tartar=,
  =Spices=, =Etc.=

[Illustration:
  Fill measuring spoon. Level off with straight-edged knife.]


[Illustration: SHORTENING

  Use Graduated Measuring Cups. Have shortening at room temperature.
  Pack shortening firmly into measuring cup. Level off with
  straight-edged knife. In measuring less than ¼ cup, use a
  tablespoon.]


[Illustration: LIQUIDS

  Use “liquid” measuring cup to prevent spilling. Pour liquid into
  cup on table. Have measuring line on eye level.]


[Illustration: EGGS

  2 Medium = ⅓ cup
  2 Large  = ½ cup
  3 Medium = ½ cup
  3 Large  = ⅔ cup

  =Eggs= vary in size ... so be sure to measure them. Never use less
  than the minimum amount specified in recipe.]


MEASURE THAT PAN!

[Illustration:
      _Do keep a ruler handy,
        To measure pans it’s dandy.
      Place the rule across the top,
        Right size pan prevents a flop!_]

[Illustration: =Square Pan= ... 2″ to 2½″ deep.]

[Illustration:
  =Round Layer Pan= ... at least 1¼″ deep for 8″ pan; 1½″ deep for 9″
  pan.]

[Illustration: =Oblong Pan= ... 1½″ to 2½″ deep.]

[Illustration: =Tube-Center Pan= 4″ deep.]

[Illustration:
  =Pie Pan= ... measured from _in_side rim to _out_side rim.]

[Illustration: =Bread Loaf Pan= 3½″ deep.]

[Illustration:
  =Cooky Sheet or Baking Sheet= ... without sides.]

      _Choose the size pan that the recipe states
      When baking bar cookies, bread, pies, or fine cakes.
      Measure with care to get just the right size,
      It makes quite a diff’rence ... you’ll soon realize!_

[Illustration:
  =Jelly Roll Pan or Baking Sheet= ... with low sides (½″).]

[Illustration: =Muffin Pan= ... deep or shallow cups.]

[Illustration: =Casserole or Baking Dish= ... with cover.]

[Illustration:
  =Individual Custard Cups= ... set in shallow pan to bake.]

[Illustration: =Fluted Pudding Mold= ... for steamed puddings, etc.]

[Illustration: =Roasting Pan= ... with rack.]

[Illustration:
  =Round Pudding Mold= ... for brown bread, plum puddings, and other
  steamed puddings.]




      _This page gives the meaning of terms in this book!
      It’s here just to help you to be a Prize Cook!_


SUGAR

[Illustration]

Fine white granulated sugar, unless otherwise specified in recipe.


SALT

[Illustration]

_Cooking_ salt in cloth sacks. It is cheaper and stronger than table
salt.


CHOCOLATE

[Illustration]

Unsweetened baking chocolate. If sweet chocolate or bits or pieces
are required, recipe will so state.


GOLD MEDAL FLOUR

[Illustration]

Gold Medal “_Kitchen-tested_” Enriched Flour—the country’s most
popular brand of all-purpose flour. _Recipes in this book have been
perfected for Gold Medal only._


EGGS

[Illustration]

Large fresh eggs (2 oz.) or equivalent amounts from smaller eggs.


MILK

[Illustration]

Fresh, sweet milk, unless otherwise indicated.


BUTTERMILK and SOUR MILK

[Illustration]

May be used interchangeably. Too old milk has disagreeable flavor!


MOLASSES

[Illustration]

Dark molasses. If black New Orleans molasses is specified, ask grocer
for “black strap.”


SPICES and FLAVORINGS

[Illustration]

High quality always, for flavor and dependability.


WHEATIES

[Illustration]

The crispy, whole-wheat flakes nationally known as the “Breakfast of
Champions.”


ROLLED OATS

[Illustration]

Either quick-cooking or regular (uncooked).


MOIST SHREDDED COCONUT

[Illustration]

Shredded coconut that’s moist ... either from a can or a package ...
or shredded from a fresh coconut.


BAKING POWDER

[Illustration]

Any of the well-known nationally distributed brands of baking powder
give good results with the recipes in this book.


COFFEE

[Illustration]

The beverage—not uncooked ground coffee.


SHORTENING

[Illustration]

Any fresh, mild-flavored solid fat ... animal or vegetable, such as
those at right. Butter is indicated in certain recipes for flavor.




HOW TO PREPARE some special ingredients the quick, easy way!


[Illustration: MELTING CHOCOLATE

Place it on waxed paper set in bowl over boiling water.]

_=or=_

[Illustration:
Place it in a small bowl set in a wire strainer over boiling water.]

[Illustration:
Remove melted chocolate from bowl or paper with rubber scraper.]


PREPARING NUTS

Some foods look and taste their best if the nuts in them are in big
chunks. In others, the nuts should be in smaller pieces. The recipes
tell you just how.

[Illustration:
  =Broken Nuts=: It’s quick and easy to break nuts with fingers into
  about ⅓-inch chunks.]

[Illustration:
  =Cut-Up Nuts=: Cut with scissors (works better than knife) into
  about ¼-inch pieces.]

[Illustration:
  =Coarsely Chopped Nuts=: Chop with long, straight knife. Hold
  point against cutting board, chop crisply through spread out
  nuts—swinging handle around in quarter circle.]

=TOAST NUTS=: to be sure they will taste fresh. Heat through in
moderate oven.

[Illustration:
  =Finely Chopped Nuts=: Chop same as for Coarsely Chopped, but into
  finer pieces.]

[Illustration:
  =Blanched Nuts=: Drop shelled nuts into boiling water. Let stand 2
  to 5 minutes (until skins are loosened). Pour off hot water, add
  some cold. Pinch each nut between thumb and finger to push off
  skins, and lay nuts on plate or paper toweling to dry.]

[Illustration:
  =Sliced or Slivered Nuts=: First blanch ... then cut with very
  sharp knife while nuts are moist and warm.]

[Illustration:
  =Ground Nuts=: Use fine knife of food grinder for finely ground ...
  coarse knife for coarsely ground. Nuts should be dry.]


PREPARING DRIED FRUITS


[Illustration: KNOW YOUR RAISINS

  =Seeded= raisins are the large variety from which seeds have been
  removed. The sweetness released when they were slit open makes them
  sticky.]

[Illustration:
  =Seedless= raisins are the small variety, both dark and light ...
  dried from seedless grapes. Cut them to get the full sweetness and
  flavor.]

[Illustration:
  =Plump= seedless raisins by washing and spreading them out in a
  flat pan. Cover. Heat slowly in mod. oven (350°) until they puff up
  and wrinkles come out.]

[Illustration: DATES

  =Cut up= dates and other sticky fruits with wet scissors. Dip
  scissors in water occasionally.]

[Illustration: PREPARING COCONUT

  =Snip through= long shreds of coconut with scissors to shorten
  them. The shorter shreds blend into doughs more evenly.]

[Illustration:
  =To tint= shredded coconut: Soak it in milk or water (¼ cup for ½
  cup coconut) with a few drops of food coloring added. Drain, dry on
  absorbent paper.]

[Illustration:
  =To cut citron= or candied orange or lemon peel, first _slice it
  thinly_—then cut slices into ½″ or ¼″ squares.]


EQUIVALENT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES

              ————NUTS IN SHELL————          ————SHELLED NUTS————
  =ALMONDS=  1 lb. = 1 cup nut meats       1 lb. = 3½ cups nut meats
  =PECANS=   1 lb. = 2¼ cups nut meats     1 lb. = 4 cups nut meats
  =PEANUTS=  1 lb. = 2 cups nut meats      1 lb. = 3 cups nut meats
  =WALNUTS=  1 lb. = 2 cups nut meats      1 lb. = 4 cups nut meats

  1 CUP WHOLE SHELLED NUTS [Illustration]
          = [Illustration] broken
          = [Illustration] cut-up
          = [Illustration] coarsely chopped — minus 1 tbsp
          = [Illustration] finely chopped — ⅞ CUP

                     WHOLE          PITTED      CUT-UP   FINELY CUT
  =DATES=         1 lb. = 2¼ cups  2  cups     1¾ cups    1½ cups
  =PRUNES=        1 lb. = 2⅓ cups  3½ cups     3  cups    2⅞ cups
                                   (cooked)    (cooked)   (cooked)
  =FIGS=          1 lb. = 2¾ cups     ——       2⅔ cups    2½ cups
  =RAISINS= 15-oz. pkg. = 2¾ cups     ——       2¾ cups    2½ cups




[Illustration: A Full Cooky Jar Makes a Home “Homey”]


_Some of the sweetest memories of Home are bound up with Mother’s
Cooky Jar. Long after the spicy fragrance of her ginger cookies
baking has faded into the years ... the thought of that ample cooky
jar on the shelf will bring back vividly the old-time peace ... and
comfort ... and security of Home. Every Home should have a cooky jar!_

[Illustration:
                                                         Betty Crocker]


Hidden Treasures for the Toddlers

[Illustration]

  Monkey-Faced Cookies                          19

  Sugar Cookies                                 30

  Molasses Crinkles                             25

  Peanut Butter Cookies                         40

  Brown Sugar Drops                             16

  Old-Time Cinnamon Jumbles                     20

  Washboards                                    25


“Tea-Off” with Cookies (_for tea_)

[Illustration]

  Stone Jar Molasses Cookies                    34

  Butter Cookies                         31 and 43

  Lemon Sugar Cookies                           30

  Chocolate Pinwheels                           30

  Petticoat Tails                               24

  New Northland Cookies                         23

  Dainty Tea Brownies                           26

  Thumbprint Cookies                            41

  English Tea Cakes                             41

  Lemon Snowdrops                               41

  3-in-1 Jumbles                                20

  Macaroons                                     21


For Hungry Home-Comers

[Illustration]

  Hermits                                       17

  Gingies                                       34

  Busy-Day Nut Drops                            16

  Snickerdoodles                                25

  Chocolate Cream Drops                         18

  Oatmeal Drop Cookies                          19

  Spiced Prune Drops                            17

  Wheaties Drop Cookies                         17


Lunch Box Surprises (_taste-thrillers all!_)

[Illustration]

  Salted Peanut Cookies                         16

  Brownies                                      26

  Monkey-Faced Cookies                          19

  Applesauce Cookies                            17

  Fig Bars                                      32

  Plantation Fruit Bars                         26

  Tutti-Frutti Surprises                        27

  Glazed Orange Jumbles                         20

  Prune-Orange Bars                             29


Put a “Lift” in Simple Desserts

[Illustration]

  Brazil or Pecan Jumbles                       20

  Coconut Cream Drops                           18

  Chocolate Refrigerator Cookies                22

  Orange-Almond Refrigerator Cookies            22

  Butterscotch Cookies with Burnt Butter Icing  18

  Date-Apricot Bars                             29


Picnic Stars (_under any skies_)

[Illustration]

  Chocolate Cream Drops                         18

  Oatmeal Refrigerator Cookies                  24

  Coconut-Lemon Bars                            28

  Frosted Gingies                               34

  Fruit-and-Nut Drops                           18

  Filled Cookies                                32

  Peanut Macaroons                              21


Say “MERRY CHRISTMAS” with Cookies

[Illustration]

  Holiday Fruit Cookies                         16

  Berliner Kranser                              42

  Poinsettias                                   32

  Zucker Hütchen (“Little Sugar Hats”)          38

  Scotch Shortbread                             39

  Hazelnut Bars                                 29

  Mandel Kager (“Almond Cookies”)               42

  Lebkuchen                                     38

  Nurnberger                                    38

  Merry Christmas Cookies (Dark and Light)      37

  Spritz                                        43

  Jelly-Meringue-Filbert Bars                   28

  Almond Wreaths                                43

  Finska Kakor (“Finnish Cakes”)                39

  Sandbakelser (“Sand Tarts”)                   39

  Almond Crescents                              41


Quick Cure for Homesickness (_send plenty to divvy up_)

  Date-and-Nut Squares                          27

  Hermits                                       17

  Chocolate Chip Cookies                        20

  Filled Cookies                                32

  Date-Apricot Bars                             29

  Chocolate-Frosted Brownies                    26

  Ginger Creams                                 19

  His Mother’s Oatmeal Cookies                  33


Fun for the Youngsters (_“tricks or treats” for Hallowe’en_)

  Animal Cookies                                37

  Wheaties-Coconut Macaroons                    21

  Cookies with Faces                            31

  Decorated Party Cookies (place cards, etc.)   31

  Jewelled Cookies                              27

  Chocolate Cream Drops                         18

  Chocolate Pinwheels                           30

  Gingerbread Boys                              34


Bedtime Snacks (_for light refreshment_)

  Brown Sugar Drops                             16

  Sugar Jumbles                                 20

  Coffee-and-Spice Drops                        17

  Ginger Refrigerator Cookies                   23

  Gold Cookies                                  25

  Honey Peanut Butter Cookies                   40

  Coconut Jumbles                               20

  Mincemeat Cookies                             17

  Date-Oatmeal Cookies                          40


Beau-Catchers (_and Husband-Keepers_)

  Date-and-Nut Squares                          27

  Ginger Creams                                 19

  Chocolate-Frosted Brownies                    26

  His Mother’s Oatmeal Cookies                  33

  Nut Sugar Cookies                             30

  Date-Nut Refrigerator Cookies                 22

  Matrimonial Cake (Date Bars)                  29

  Chocolate Chip Cookies                        20

  Toffee-Nut Bars                               28


Say It with Cookies (_for birthdays, sick friends, etc._)

  Russian Tea Cakes                             42

  Butter Fingers                                41

  Walnut Squares                                27

  Little Sugar Hats                             38

  Filled Cookies in Fancy Shapes                32

  Almond Wreaths                                43

  Orange-Chocolate Chip Cookies                 20

  Rich Sugar Cookies                            30

----------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration]

CLIP AND FILE at end of this chapter new cooky recipes from Gold
Medal ads and from recipe folders in every sack of Gold Medal Flour.

[Illustration]


“_Cooky Shines_”

Won’t you come into our Kitchen and join us in our “Cooky Shines?”
That used to mean tea parties—but it’s what _we_ call our Staff
sessions of cooky baking. We have lots of fun trying out all the
delicious cookies that come to us from many lands. I’d like to
show you some of the cookies most popular with Staff members and
friends who have shared their favorite recipes with us. You’ll see
many varieties in the color picture on the next page. Please take a
look—then turn back.


_New, Easy, Double-Quick Way_

[Illustration: _DOUBLE-QUICK_]

Don’t all those cookies look tempting? And they’re ever so easy to
make! For we’ve worked out a new simplified method—a _double-quick_
method! Takes less than _half_ the usual mixing time! Would you like
to know the secret? Then turn to the step-by-step pictures following.
Imagine _you_ are standing right beside one of our Staff while
she makes cookies. Could anything be easier? There’s no laborious
creaming, no separate beating of eggs, only one bowl! Just a few
simple basic steps.


_More and Better Help_

Now turn to the recipe pages, and have the fun of making the many
different types of cookies. You’ll find all the little pointers you
would notice if you were right in our kitchen. For instance, there’s
a _brand-new feature_ which I think will be a big help to you. We
tell how to judge _when the cookies are done_. And don’t miss the
recipes marked with a ★! They are special favorites with our Staff!


_The “Key” Recipe Makes You Master of Many_

[Illustration]

You’ll love the new plan of _key recipes_ with variations. When you
master the key ( (KEY) ) recipe you’ll automatically know how to make
_several different kinds_ of cookies. And notice that each recipe
calls for our all-purpose Gold Medal “_Kitchen-tested_” Enriched
Flour. This is to safeguard your results.

Because you see, every recipe has been developed with and for this
particular flour—and tested in representative homes—with Gold Medal.
It gives that moist, full-flavored quality everyone _wants_ in
cookies.


_Recipes Fit the Needs_

The recipes are given in _practical_ amounts for average families.
Those for everyday cookies, and holiday cookies that keep well, make
enough so you won’t have to bake too often. Recipes for the richer,
dainty cookies make enough for _special_ occasions.


_Happy Memories_

[Illustration]

We’ve tried to include _all_ the hints, shortcuts and tricks that
save you time and work so you can delight your family with new
treats each week. Cookies bring such a _big_ reward in cheer and
satisfaction! They make hospitality _so easy_! Invite your friends to
join you for “Cooky Shines” in _your_ kitchen and you’ll be giving
them happy memories they’ll all cherish as long as they live!

[Illustration]

[Illustration:
    ★ 1 Place-Card Cookies

    ★ 2 Gingerbread Boys, Boy and Girl and Animal Cookies

    ★ 3 Date-Nut Squares (wrapped), Toffee-Nut Bars

    ★ 4 Peanut Butter Cookies

    ★ 5 _Above star_: Chocolate Cream Drop, Date-Nut
            Square, Matrimonial Cooky
       _Below star_: Toffee-Nut Bar, Hermit

    ★ 6 _Left_: Sugar Cookies _Right_: Chocolate Chip Cookies

    ★ 7 Hermits

    ★ 8 Cookies for Parties: Hatchets, Flowers, Hearts

    ★ 9 _Outer ring_: Flower-shaped Butter Cookies
        _Second ring_: Scotch Shortbread
        _Third ring_: Frosted Chocolate Cream Drops with Thumbprint
            Cookies
        _Centered_: Coconut Macaroons with leaf-shaped Butter Cookies

    ★ 10 Chocolate Chip Cookies

    ★ 11 Chocolate Cream Drops

    ★ 12 _Left to right_: Date-Nut Squares,
          Butterscotch Cookies with Burnt Butter Icing,
          Brownies,
          Filled Cookies,
          Chocolate Refrigerator Cookies  ]




    COOKIES


    [Sidenote: LEARN THE “A-B-C’s” HERE ...]

    [Illustration: _BEFORE YOU START_

    DO THIS....

  Read through the recipe
  Get together the ingredients
  Collect the utensils
  Heat up the oven
  Measure the ingredients]

[Illustration:
  =1= =Select= baking sheets (cooky sheets or pans) as indicated in
  each recipe. Heavy or double sheets (two sheets of the same size
  placed one on top of the other) prevent cookies from browning on
  the bottom too much and too quickly.]

[Illustration:
  =2= =If pan= with sides is used for cooky sheet, turn it
  upside-down and bake cookies on the bottom ... (insures even
  browning). Grease cool pans as indicated in recipes ... with
  _unsalted_ shortening.]

[Illustration:
  =3= =Mix= thoroughly the _softened_ shortening, sugar, and
  eggs—also any molasses, syrup, or melted chocolate in the recipe.]

[Illustration:
  =4= =Stir= in the liquid and flavoring. (A few recipes indicate
  that liquid and flour mixture should be added alternately.)]

[Sidenote: ... AND THE REST IS EASY!]

[Illustration:
  =5= =Sift= together and stir in the flour, salt, and leavening
  (baking powder _or_ cream of tartar and soda)—also any spices in
  the recipe. Then, mix in any fruit or nuts.]

[Illustration:
  =6= =Chill= dough, if indicated in recipe, to make it easy to
  handle. Then shape dough for different types of cookies as directed
  in the recipe. Place on prepared pans.]

[Illustration:
  =7= =Bake.= Place pan on rack in center of oven. If cooky tops do
  not brown properly, move to a higher rack for last few minutes.
  Pans should be narrower, shorter than oven (to leave a 1″ space for
  circulation of heat).]

[Illustration:
  =8= =Look= at cookies when minimum baking time is up. As soon as
  they are done (according to recipe), remove from oven. With a wide
  spatula, slip off baking sheet or out of pan onto wire rack to cool
  (as recipe directs).]

=Store= cooled cookies properly to keep top eating quality. Keep
crisp, thin cookies in can with loose cover.

[Illustration]

=Keep= soft cookies in air-tight container (a covered earthen jar or
a can with tight cover). Slices of apple or orange in jar help mellow
and moisten cookies. Change fruit frequently.


Where to Find:
  Drop Cookies              16-21

  Refrigerator Cookies      22-24

  Miscellaneous Cookies        25

  Bar Cookies               26-29

  Rolled Cookies            30-39

  Molded Cookies        25, 40-42

  Press Cookies                43




=DROP= COOKIES


[Sidenote: “Quickies” busy mothers love to make.]


HOW TO MAKE DROP COOKIES (preliminary steps on pp. 14-15)

[Illustration:
  =1= It will save time in spacing dough, if you grease in
  symmetrical rows where you want to drop the dough. It will also
  save washing browned grease off a tin pan.]

[Illustration:
  =2= Drop dough by rounded or heaping teaspoonfuls, depending on
  size of cookies desired. With another teaspoon, push dough onto
  baking sheet ... being careful to peak up the dough.]


BROWN SUGAR DROPS ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Soft, chewy. Wonderful brown sugar flavor._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening
  2 cups brown sugar
  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  ½ cup sour milk or buttermilk

Sift together and stir in ...

  3½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt

Chill at least 1 hour. Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on
lightly greased baking sheet. Bake until set ... just until, when
touched lightly with finger, almost no imprint remains.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2½″ cookies.


★ HOLIDAY FRUIT COOKIES

  _Elegant. Richly studded with fruits and nuts.
  Butterscotch-flavored. Perfect for your loveliest hospitality._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into the dough 1½ cups broken pecans, 2
cups candied cherries, cut in halves, and 2 cups cut-up dates. Place
a pecan half on each cooky. Make these rich cookies smaller ... only
2″.


SALTED PEANUT COOKIES

  _These tempting peanut crunches are always a favorite both with
  children and grown-ups._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ in place of the 3½ cups flour, stir
in 2 cups _sifted_ flour, 2 cups rolled oats, 1 cup WHEATIES, 1 cup
coarsely chopped salted peanuts (without husks). Bake until brown, 12
to 14 min.

[Illustration: _Oops! watch that spread_

To prevent drop cookies spreading ... chill dough, peak it up, be
sure oven temperature is correct.]


BUSY-DAY NUT DROPS

  _Easy budget-savers. One of our home testers calls these her “wash
  day” cookies._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into the dough 1 cup cut-up nuts.


BUSY-DAY COCONUT DROPS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into the dough 1 cup moist shredded
coconut.

[Sidenote: “Cozies” from the cooky jar.]


COFFEE-AND-SPICE DROPS ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Intriguing flavors from the Far East._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening
  2 cups brown sugar
  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  ½ cup cold coffee

Sift together and stir in ...

  3½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt
  1 tsp. nutmeg
  1 tsp. cinnamon

Chill at least 1 hour. Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on
lightly greased baking sheet. Bake until set ... just until, when
touched lightly with finger, almost no imprint remains.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2½″ cookies.


★ HERMITS

  _Spicy, fruity, satisfying ... contributed by Mrs. William G. Dorr,
  who worked with us in our test kitchen one summer. She says they
  were always first choice with her little girls._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into the dough 2½ cups halved seeded
raisins and 1¼ cups broken nuts. Be careful not to overbake.

_All you have to do—to plump seedless raisins_

  Wash them and spread out in a flat pan. Cover the pan and heat
  slowly in a moderate oven.

  To get full flavor from seedless raisins, cut them in two with
  scissors after plumping.


MINCEMEAT COOKIES

  _Extra quick, no extra fruits needed ... they are in the mincemeat._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into the dough 2 cups well drained
mincemeat.


SPICED PRUNE DROPS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and add ¼ tsp. cloves with other spices. Mix
into dough 2 cups cut-up cooked prunes (pitted and well drained), and
1 cup broken nuts.


APPLESAUCE COOKIES

_Yummy applesauce cake in cooky form._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ add 1 tsp. cloves with other spices.
Mix into the dough 2 cups well drained thick applesauce, 1 cup cut-up
raisins, and ½ cup coarsely chopped nuts. Bake 9 to 12 min.


WHEATIES DROP COOKIES

_Treats for young champions._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening
  1 cup sugar
  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  1 cup sour milk

Sift together and stir in ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 tsp. cinnamon
  ½ tsp. nutmeg
  ½ tsp. cloves

Stir in ...

  ¾ cup coarsely chopped nuts
  1 cup cut-up raisins

Fold in ...

  3 cups WHEATIES

Chill dough. Drop by teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on lightly greased
baking sheet. Bake until, when touched lightly with finger, _no_
imprint remains.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2½″ cookies.

[Sidenote: Some of grandmother’s prize cooky favorites.]


OLD-FASHIONED SOUR CREAM DROPS ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Soft, tender, cream-rich._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening
  1½ cups sugar
  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  1 cup thick sour cream
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  2¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  ½ tsp. salt

Chill at least 1 hour. Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on
lightly greased baking sheet. Bake until delicately browned, just
until, when touched lightly with finger, almost no imprint remains.

TEMPERATURE: 425° (hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2½″ cookies.


★ BUTTERSCOTCH COOKIES WITH BURNT BUTTER ICING

  _Really delectable, especially with the unusual buttery icing. Mrs.
  R. C. Karstad of Nicollet, Minnesota, won a prize on them._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ use brown sugar in place of granulated
sugar. Mix into the dough ⅔ cup cut-up nuts. Spread cooled cookies
with


BURNT BUTTER ICING

Melt 4 tbsp. butter until golden brown. Blend in 1 cup _sifted_
confectioners’ sugar and ½ tsp. vanilla. Stir in 1 to 2 tbsp. hot
water until icing spreads smoothly.

AMOUNT: Icing for about 30 cookies.


COCONUT CREAM DROPS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ mix into the dough 1 cup moist
shredded coconut.

[Illustration: _to sour sweet cream_

  Use freshly soured cream for good flavor. Buy it from the dairy. Or
  sour it yourself by adding 1 tbsp. vinegar or lemon juice to 1 cup
  sweet cream.]

_All you have to do_—to give iced cookies a professional air: Place
  the same amount of icing (1 tsp.) on center of each. Then, with a
  spatula, spread the icing with circular motion in pretty swirls.


CHOCOLATE CREAM DROPS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ stir into shortening mixture 2 sq.
unsweetened chocolate (2 oz.), melted. Mix into the dough 1 cup
cut-up nuts. Frost cooled cookies if desired with


CHOCOLATE ICING

Melt together over hot water 1 tbsp. butter and 1 sq. unsweetened
chocolate (1 oz.). Stir in 3 tbsp. top milk and 1½ cups _sifted_
confectioners’ sugar. Thin with cream to make glossy and easy to
spread.

AMOUNT: Icing for about 30 cookies.


FRUIT-AND-NUT DROPS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ sift with dry ingredients 1 tsp.
cinnamon, ½ tsp. cloves, ¼ tsp. nutmeg. Mix into the dough 1 cup
cut-up dates (or raisins) and 1 cup cut-up nuts.

NOTE: The spices may be omitted.

[Sidenote: Molasses ‘n’ spice, my how nice!]


★ GINGER CREAMS

  _Fluffy ginger cakes ... topped with creamy white icing._

  _They bring memories of a real farm home near Owatonna, Minnesota,
  where children trooped to the cooky jar after chores were done.
  Mildred Bennett (now Mrs. Axel Anderson), who was honored one year
  as national 4-H girl, brought us this recipe when she was a member
  of our staff._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ¼ cup soft shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  1 small egg
  ½ cup molasses

Stir in ...

  1 tsp. soda dissolved in ½ cup hot water

Sift together and stir in ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  1 tsp. ginger
  ½ tsp. nutmeg
  ½ tsp. cloves
  ½ tsp. cinnamon

Chill dough. Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on lightly
greased baking sheet. Bake until set ... just until, when touched
lightly with finger, almost no imprint remains. While slightly warm,
frost with Quick Cream Icing (_below_.)

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 7 to 8 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2″ cookies.


QUICK CREAM ICING

  _Delicious, creamy-tasting topping ... ideal for Ginger Creams and
  other festive cookies._

Blend together ¾ cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar, ¼ tsp. vanilla,
and cream to make easy to spread (about 1 tbsp.).


OATMEAL DROP COOKIES

  _Chewy ... with a hint of molasses._

  _We created this recipe in our test kitchen for the little daughter
  of a famous actress, and for all little children._

[Illustration]

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening
  1¼ cups sugar
  2 eggs
  6 tbsp. molasses

Sift together and stir in ...

  1¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt
  1 tsp. cinnamon

Stir in ...

  2 cups rolled oats
  ½ cup cut-up nuts
  1 cup cut-up raisins

Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on lightly greased baking
sheet. Bake until lightly browned.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2½″ cookies.


★ MONKEY-FACED COOKIES

  _You’ll be amused by the droll faces._

  _In an antique shop, pasted on the under side of a drawer in an old
  table, a radio friend of Fultonville, New York, discovered this
  recipe written in faded ink in old-fashioned script: “for Elsa.”_

[Illustration]

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening
  1 cup brown sugar
  ½ cup molasses

Stir in ...

  ½ cup sour milk or buttermilk
  1 tsp. vinegar

Sift together and stir in ...

  2½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. ginger
  ½ tsp. cinnamon

Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2½″ apart on lightly greased baking
sheet. Place 3 raisins on each for eyes and mouth. Bake until set.
The faces take on droll expressions in baking.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2½″ cookies.

[Sidenote: Easy to “jumble up” in a hurry!]


SUGAR JUMBLES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Little sugar cakes of old-time goodness._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening (part butter)
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  1⅛ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¼ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt

Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on lightly greased baking
sheet. Bake until delicately browned ... cookies should still be
soft. Cool slightly ... then remove from baking sheet.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 3 doz. 2″ cookies.


COCONUT JUMBLES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into the dough 1 cup moist shredded
coconut.


★ CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES

[Illustration]

  _The glamorous_ Toll House _cookies ... first introduced to
  American homemakers in 1939 through my series of radio talks on
  “Famous Foods from Famous Eating Places.”_

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ in place of ½ cup sugar use ¾ cup
(half brown, half white). Then mix into the dough ½ cup cut-up nuts
and one 7-oz. package chocolate pieces (about 1¼ cups).


ORANGE-CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES

Follow recipe for Chocolate Chip cookies and add 1 tsp. grated orange
rind to the shortening mixture.


3-IN-1 JUMBLES

_Choco-nut ... coco-nut ... date-nut._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and divide dough into three parts. _Choco-Nut_:
To one part, add ½ sq. unsweetened chocolate (½ oz.), melted, and
drop whole nutmeats (½ cup) into it ... coating each thoroughly.
_Coco-Nut_: To another part, add ½ cup moist shredded coconut.
_Date-Nut_: Leave third part plain ... and drop nut-stuffed dates
(14) into it ... coating each thoroughly. Each coated date and each
coated nut makes a cooky.


GLAZED ORANGE JUMBLES

_Double-orange flavor.... Sure to win favor._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—mix into dough 1½ tsp. grated orange rind and,
if desired, 1 cup chopped nuts. Bake. While hot, dip tops of cookies
in orange glaze (⅓ cup sugar, 3 tbsp. orange juice, 1 tsp. grated
orange rind ... heated together).


BRAZIL OR PECAN JUMBLES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and stir into the dough 2 cups cut-up Brazil or
other nuts.


OLD-TIME CINNAMON JUMBLES

  _Made with buttermilk ... soft and cake-like._

  _“So easy ... that making them is a thrill for the girls in the
  Home Economics classes each year,” according to Miss Sarah M.
  Knight of Buffalo, New York. And even her little sixth-graders
  report making them with great success in their own homes!_

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening (part butter)
  1 cup sugar
  1 egg

Stir in ...

  ¾ cup buttermilk
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt

Chill dough. Drop rounded teaspoonfuls about 2″ apart on lightly
greased baking sheet. Sprinkle with mixture of sugar and cinnamon (¼
cup sugar and 1 tsp. cinnamon). Bake until set but not brown.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2″ cookies.

[Sidenote: Party specialties in answer to requests.]


COCONUT MACAROONS ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Moist, chewy, chock-full of coconut._

Beat until fluffy (only ½ min.) ...

  ½ cup egg whites

Stir in ...

  1¼ cups sugar
  ¼ tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Blend in ...

  2½ cups moist shredded coconut

Drop rounded teaspoonfuls 2″ apart on ungreased wrapping paper on
baking sheet. Bake until set and delicately browned. (_Illustrated
directions at bottom of page tell how to remove macaroons from paper
easily._) They spread during baking, so when they come from oven
shape into mounds by gathering in edges with fingers.

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 15 to 18 min.

AMOUNT: About 2½ doz. 1½″ macaroons.


CHOCOLATE-COCONUT MACAROONS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and add 2 sq. unsweetened chocolate (2 oz.),
melted.


CHERRY-COCONUT MACAROONS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and add ½ cup chopped candied cherries.


ALMOND MACAROONS

Soften with hands ...

  1 lb. almond paste (bought from bakery or made from recipe below)

Work in ...

  2 cups sugar
  ¼ tsp. salt
  4 tbsp. GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ⅔ cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar
  ⅔ cup egg whites, unbeaten

Drop teaspoonfuls 2″ apart on ungreased wrapping paper on baking
sheet. Pat tops lightly with fingers dipped in cold water. Bake until
set and delicately browned. Remove from paper.

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 18 to 20 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2″ macaroons.


ALMOND PASTE (=1 lb.=)

Grind 2 cups blanched almonds, thoroughly dried (not toasted),
through finest knife of food grinder. Then grind twice more. Mix in
1½ cups _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar. Blend in ¼ cup egg whites,
unbeaten, and 2 tsp. almond extract. Mold into ball. Let age in
tightly covered container in refrigerator at least 4 days.

[Illustration:
  Remove paper with baked macaroons on it. Lay a wet towel on the hot
  baking sheet. Place paper of macaroons on towel and let stand 1
  minute. Steam will loosen macaroons. Slip off with spatula.]


WHEATIES-COC’N’T MACAROONS

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_, in place of 2½ cups coconut, use 2
cups WHEATIES and 1 cup coconut. Bake 12 to 15 min.


PEANUT MACAROONS

_Thin, wafery._

Beat until lemon-colored (5 min.) ...

  1 egg (large)

Gradually beat in ...

  ⅔ cup sugar
  1 tsp. water

Mix together and gently fold in ...

  1 tbsp. GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ⅓ tsp. salt
  ⅓ tsp. baking powder

Add and mix just enough to blend in ...

  1⅓ cups finely ground roasted peanuts (_1 cup shelled,
          brown husks removed_)

Drop teaspoonfuls 2″ apart on ungreased wrapping paper on baking
sheet. Bake until set and delicately browned. Remove from paper
immediately.

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 14 to 15 min.

AMOUNT: About 3 doz. 2″ macaroons.




=REFRIGERATOR= COOKIES


[Sidenote: Mix when convenient ...]


HOW TO MAKE REFRIGERATOR COOKIES (preliminary steps on pp. 14-15)

[Illustration:
  =1= Press and mold with hands into a long roll, even and smooth,
  and as big around as you want your cookies to be.]

[Illustration:
  =2= Wrap in waxed paper ... twisting ends to hold the roll in
  shape. Or press into a waxed cardboard carton (_butter or ice cream
  carton_).]


[Illustration:
  =3= Chill roll of dough until it is firm enough to slice easily. To
  speed up chilling, place in freezing compartment.]

[Illustration:
  =4= Slice with a thin knife, very sharp, to insure neat slices with
  uncrumbled edges. Return unused dough to refrigerator so it can
  remain stiff.]

REFRIGERATOR COOKIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Melt-in-the-mouth, rich, and crispy._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup brown sugar
  2 eggs

Sift together and stir in

  2¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt
  *2 to 3 tsp. cinnamon

  *Or use 1½ tsp. vanilla (add with eggs).

Mix thoroughly with hands. Press and mold into a long smooth roll
about 2½″ in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper, and chill until stiff
(several hours or overnight). With a thin, sharp knife, cut in thin
slices ⅛″ to ¹⁄₁₆″ thick. Place slices a little apart on ungreased
baking sheet. Bake until lightly browned.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 6 to 8 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2½″ cookies.


★ NUT REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

_Nut-lovers really go for these cookies._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into dough ½ cup cut-up blanched
almonds _or_ black walnuts _or_ other nuts.


DATE-NUT REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—using both cinnamon and vanilla. Mix into dough
½ cup finely chopped nuts and ½ cup finely cut dates.


ORANGE-ALMOND REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—but omit cinnamon. Stir 1 tbsp. grated orange
rind into shortening mixture. Mix into dough ½ cup cut-up blanched
almonds.


CHOCOLATE REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—but omit the cinnamon. Blend 2 sq. unsweetened
chocolate (2 oz.), melted and cooled, into the shortening mixture.

_All you have to do—_for an elegant dessert: Make a roll by arranging
  the chocolate or ginger cookies (_see p. 23_) side by side with
  sweetened whipped cream between. Spread whipped cream over top and
  sides of roll. Chill 6 to 8 hr. Slice diagonally for gaily striped
  servings.

[Sidenote: ... slice and bake when convenient.]


GINGER REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

_Gingery favorites in jig-time!_

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening
  1 cup sugar
  2 eggs
  ½ cup black molasses

Sift together and stir in ...

  4½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt
  1 tbsp. ginger (3 tsp.)

Mix thoroughly with hands. Press and mold into a long, smooth roll
about 2½″ in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper, and chill until stiff
(several hours or overnight). With thin, sharp knife, cut in thin
slices ⅛″ to ¹⁄₁₆″ thick. Place slices a little apart on ungreased
baking sheet. Bake until lightly browned.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 9 doz. 2½″ cookies.


★ NEW NORTHLAND COOKIES

[Illustration]

  _Crunchy, flavorful shortening-savers._

  _Languid days on the St. Lawrence; the pink, rocky cliffs and blue
  icebergs of Labrador; and afternoon tea on deck. Such are the
  memories these cookies bring to Ruth G. Anderson of our Staff who
  brought back the recipe after a cruise to the Northland._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  6 tbsp. soft shortening (part butter)
  1 cup brown sugar

Stir in ...

  ¼ cup cold water

Sift together and stir in ...

  1¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. cinnamon

Mix in ...

  ½ cup cut-up blanched almonds

Mix thoroughly with hands. Press and mold into a long smooth roll
about 2½″ in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper, and chill until stiff
(several hours or overnight). With thin, sharp knife, cut in thin
slices ⅛″ to ¹⁄₁₆″ thick. Place slices a little apart on ungreased
baking sheet. Bake until lightly browned. Remove from pan immediately.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 6 to 8 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2½″ cookies.

[Sidenote: Snip off and bake ... for unexpected guests.]


★ PETTICOAT TAILS

_Richly delicate and dainty._

[Illustration]

  _This recipe was brought from France to Scotland by Mary, Queen of
  Scots. The French name “Petits Gateaux Tailles” means—“little cakes
  cut off.” But the name came to be pronounced as it sounded to the
  Scotch and English—“Petticoat Tails.”_

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft butter
  1 cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar
  1 tsp. flavoring (vanilla, almond, wintergreen or rose)

Sift together and stir in ...

  2½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¼ tsp. salt

Mix thoroughly with hands. Press and mold into a long, smooth roll
about 2″ in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper, and chill until stiff
(several hours or overnight). With thin, sharp knife, cut in thin
slices ⅛″ to ¹⁄₁₆″ thick. Place slices a little apart on ungreased
baking sheet. Bake until lightly browned.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2″ cookies.


OATMEAL REFRIGERATOR COOKIES

  _Nice and chewy, with a molasses-lemon tang._

  _Voted the best oatmeal cooky ever tasted ... when sent to our
  Recipe Contest by Mrs. J. A. Gmeinder of St. Paul, Minnesota. The
  distinguishing molasses-lemon flavor was an idea from Mrs. Richard
  Nugent, Brooklyn, New York._

[Illustration]

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup brown sugar
  1 egg
  1½ tsp. grated lemon rind
  1½ tbsp. molasses
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  ⅞ cup (¾ cup plus 2 tbsp.) _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  1½ cups rolled oats

Mix thoroughly with hands. Press and mold into a long, smooth roll
about 2½″ in diameter. Wrap in waxed paper, and chill until stiff
(several hours). With thin, sharp knife, cut in thin slices ⅛″ to
¹⁄₁₆″ thick. Place slices a little apart on ungreased baking sheet.
Bake until lightly browned.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2½″ cookies.


PRETTY FOR PARTIES

_All you have to do—_to make Petticoat Tails match your color scheme:
  Tint the dough with a few drops of red food coloring and use rose
  flavoring for a pink party. Use wintergreen flavoring and a few drops
  of green coloring for a green party.

[Illustration]




=MISCELLANEOUS= COOKIES


[Sidenote: Popular through the years ...]


SNICKERDOODLES

  _Fun to say ... to sniff ... to eat!_

  _Pat Roth of our Staff said, “It’s one of my happy childhood
  memories. My mother would be baking when we came home from school
  and we would have Snickerdoodles hot out of the oven with a glass
  of milk.”_

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening
  1½ cups sugar
  2 eggs

Sift together and stir in ...

  2¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  2 tsp. cream of tartar
  1 tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt

Chill dough. Roll into balls the size of small walnuts. Roll in
mixture of 2 tbsp. sugar and 2 tsp. cinnamon. Place about 2″ apart
on ungreased baking sheet. Bake until lightly browned ... but still
soft. (These cookies puff up at first ... then flatten out with
crinkled tops.)

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2″ cookies.


GOLD COOKIES

  _Really awfully good ... and they use up those extra egg yolks!_

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening
  1½ cups sugar
  4 egg yolks

Stir in ...

  2 tbsp. milk
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  1½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt

Chill dough. Roll into balls the size of walnuts ... then roll balls
in a mixture of ¾ cup finely chopped nuts and 2 tsp. cinnamon. Place
3″ apart on ungreased baking sheet. Bake until golden brown ... but
still soft.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 12 to 15 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2″ cookies.


★ MOLASSES CRINKLES

  _Thick, chewy, with crackled, sugary tops._

  _When served at Mrs. Fred Fredell’s in St. Paul, Minnesota, they
  were so delicious I begged the recipe. Thanks to her, thousands of
  homes have enjoyed these spicy cookies._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ¾ cup soft shortening
  1 cup brown sugar
  1 egg
  ¼ cup molasses

Sift together and stir in ...

  2¼ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  2 tsp. soda
  ¼ tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. cloves
  1 tsp. cinnamon
  1 tsp. ginger

Chill dough. Roll into balls the size of large walnuts. Dip tops in
sugar. Place, sugared-side-up, 3″ apart on greased baking sheet.
Sprinkle each cooky with 2 or 3 drops of water to produce a crackled
surface. Bake just until set but not hard.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2½″ cookies.


WASHBOARDS

_Coconut-taffy bars._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening (half butter)
  2 cups brown sugar
  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  1 tsp. soda dissolved in ¼ cup hot water
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  4 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1½ tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  1 cup moist shredded coconut (cut up any long shreds)

Chill dough 2 hr. Roll into balls the size of walnuts. Place 2″ apart
on ungreased baking sheet. With fingers, flatten each ball into a 1½″
× 2½″ oblong ¼″ thick. (And we _do_ mean ¼ inch!) Press each cooky
lengthwise with tines of floured fork in washboard effect. Bake until
lightly browned.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2″ × 3″ cookies.




=BAR= COOKIES


[Sidenote: Perennial favorites ... cut in squares or bars.]


=HOW TO MAKE BAR COOKIES= (preliminary steps on pp. 14-15)

[Illustration:
  =1= Spread dough in greased pan and bake as directed.]

[Illustration:
  =2= Cut into squares or bars when slightly cool.]

[Illustration:
  =3= Remove from the pan with a wide spatula.]


BROWNIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Chewy, fudgy squares ... everyone loves them!_

Melt together over hot water ...

  2 sq. unsweetened chocolate (2 oz.)
  ⅓ cup shortening

Beat in ...

  1 cup sugar
  2 eggs

Sift together and stir in ...

  ¾ cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  ½ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  ½ cup broken nuts

Spread in well greased 8″ square pan (8 × 8 × 2″). Bake until top has
dull crust. A slight imprint will be left when top is touched lightly
with finger. Cool slightly ... then cut into squares.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 30 to 35 min.

AMOUNT: 16 2″ squares.


CHOCOLATE-FROSTED BROWNIES

_“Lickin’ good!” ... youngsters say._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and spread cooled bars or squares before
cutting with


MARIE’S CHOCOLATE ICING

Melt over hot water 1 tbsp. butter and 1 sq. unsweetened chocolate
(1 oz.). Blend in 1½ tbsp. warm water. Stir and beat in about 1 cup
_sifted_ confectioners’ sugar (until icing will spread easily).


DAINTY TEA BROWNIES

  _Picturesque ... very thin. A highlight of the silver teas at a
  Minneapolis church._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ chop nuts _finely_ and spread dough
in _two_ well greased oblong pans (9 × 13 × 2″). Sprinkle with ¾ cup
blanched and finely sliced green pistachio nuts. Bake 7 to 8 min. Cut
immediately into squares or diamonds. Remove from pan while warm.


PLANTATION FRUIT BARS

  _Little sugar and shortening ... but delicious. Sent to us by Mrs.
  Charles Willard of Chicago._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ¼ cup soft shortening
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg
  ½ cup molasses

Stir in ...

  ½ cup milk

Sift together and stir in ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1½ tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  1 cup broken nuts
  1 to 2 cups cut-up raisins or dates

Spread in greased oblong pan (9 × 13 × 2″). Bake. Cool slightly ...
spread with Lemon Icing (_see below_) and cut into bars.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 25 to 30 min.

AMOUNT: 4 doz. 1″ × 2″ bars.

LEMON ICING (for Plantation Fruit Bars)

Gradually beat ½ cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar into 1 stiffly
beaten egg white. Add dash of salt, ¼ tsp. lemon extract.

[Sidenote: Confection-like squares for special entertaining.]


DATE-AND-NUT SQUARES

  _Chewy favorites with rich nutty flavor. Much like the Bishop’s
  Bread served to circuit-riding preachers in days of Early America._

Beat until foamy ...

  2 eggs

Beat in ...

  ½ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  ½ cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  ½ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  1 cup cut-up walnuts
  2 cups finely cut-up dates

Spread in well greased 8″ square pan (8 × 8 × 2″). Bake until top has
dull crust. Cut into squares while warm, cool, then remove from pan.
If desired, dip in confectioners’ sugar.

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 25 to 30 min.

AMOUNT: 16 2″ squares.

[Illustration: To sugar confection-like Date-and-Nut Squares
(_above_) ... dip in confectioners’ sugar and shake.]


JEWELLED COOKIES

  _Glowing with gems of spicy gumdrops (red and green for Christmas
  holidays)._

Beat until foamy ...

  2 eggs

Beat in ...

  1 cup sugar
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  1 cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  ½ cup cut-up toasted blanched almonds
  ½ cup cut-up gumdrops (¼″)

Spread in well greased and floured 9″ square pan (9 × 9 × 2″).
Sprinkle extra cut-up gumdrops (about ½ cup) over top of batter. Bake
until top has a dull crust. Cut into squares while warm, cool, then
remove from pan. (Crust will crack.)

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 30 to 35 min.

AMOUNT: 16 2″ squares.


★ WALNUT SQUARES

_Almost candy ... so rich and nutty._

Beat until foamy ...

  1 egg

Beat in ...

  1 cup brown sugar
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  ½ cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  ⅛ tsp. soda

Mix in ...

  1 cup cut-up walnuts

Spread in well greased 8″ square pan (8 × 8 × 2″). Bake until top has
a dull crust. Cut into squares while warm, cool, then remove from pan.

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 25 to 30 min.

AMOUNT: 16 2″ squares.


TUTTI-FRUTTI SURPRISES

_Like moist fruit cake ... full of good things._

Beat until foamy ...

  2 eggs

Gradually beat in ...

  1 cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar

Stir in ...

  3 tbsp. shortening, melted

Sift together and stir in ...

  ¾ cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1½ tsp. baking powder
  1 tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  1 cup cut-up nuts
  1 cup cut-up dates
  ¾ cup cut-up candied fruit

Spread in well greased 8″ square pan (8 × 8 × 2″). Bake until top has
a dull crust. Cut into squares while warm, cool, then remove from pan.

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 30 to 35 min.

AMOUNT: 16 2″ squares.

[Sidenote: Deliciously rich two-layer cookies.]


TOFFEE-NUT BARS ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Almond-coconut topping on melt-in-the-mouth crust._


BOTTOM LAYER

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening (half butter)
  ½ cup brown sugar

Stir in ...

  1 cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour

Press and flatten with hand to cover bottom of ungreased oblong pan
(9 × 13 × 2″). Bake 10 min. Then spread with

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 min.


ALMOND-COCONUT TOPPING

Beat well ...

  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  1 cup brown sugar
  1 tsp. vanilla

Mix together and stir in ...

  2 tbsp. GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. baking powder
  ½ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  1 cup moist shredded coconut
  1 cup cut-up almonds (or other nuts)

Return to oven and bake 25 min. more until topping is golden brown.
Cool slightly ... then cut into bars.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 25 min.

AMOUNT: About 2½ doz. 1″ × 3″ bars.

[Illustration: Spread almond-coconut topping on bottom layer.]


COCONUT-LEMON BARS

Follow (KEY) recipe above for Bottom Layer. Bake 10 min. Let stand a few
minutes before spreading with


COCONUT-LEMON TOPPING

Beat well ...

  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  1 cup brown sugar
  2 tbsp. lemon juice
  1 tsp. grated lemon rind
  ½ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  1 cup moist shredded coconut
  1 cup cut-up walnuts
  ½ cup cut-up raisins

Return to oven and bake 25 min. more until topping is golden brown.
Cool slightly ... then cut into bars.


★ JELL-MERINGUE-FILBERT BARS

  _Jeannette Campbell of our Staff goes into rhapsodies about these
  luscious bars._

Follow (KEY) recipe above for Bottom Layer—_except_ use _sifted_
confectioners’ sugar in place of brown, and stir 2 egg yolks into the
sugar and shortening mixture. Bake. Spread with ½ to ¾ cup softened
jelly (currant, raspberry, or grape), then with


MERINGUE-FILBERT TOPPING

Beat until stiff ...

  2 egg whites

Beat in gradually ...

  ½ cup sugar
  ¼ tsp. cinnamon

Fold in ...

  1 cup ground filberts (unblanched)

Return to oven and bake 25 min. more until topping is golden brown.
Cool slightly ... then cut into bars.

[Illustration:
  The fluffy meringue-filbert topping is piled on top of softened
  jelly spread over the crust.]

[Sidenote: Fruit fillings between nut-rich crumb crusts.]


FILLED BAR COOKIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

First, prepare desired filling (_see below_), and cool.

FOR CRUST

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ¾ cup soft shortening (part butter)
  1 cup brown sugar

Sift together and stir in ...

  1¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt

Stir in ...

  1½ cups rolled oats

Mix thoroughly. Place one half of this crumb mixture in greased and
floured oblong pan (9 × 13 × 2″). Press and flatten with hands to
cover bottom of pan. Spread with cooled filling. Cover with remaining
crumb mixture ... patting lightly. Bake until lightly browned. While
warm, cut into bars and remove from pan.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 25 to 30 min.

AMOUNT: About 2½ doz. 1½″ × 2″ bars.


DATE BARS (Matrimonial Cake)

  _These cookies won the first prize at the famous Minnesota State
  Fair one year ... for Mrs. C. Arlt of St. Paul._

Follow (KEY) recipe above, using:


DATE FILLING

Mix together in saucepan ...

  3 cups cut-up dates
  ¼ cup sugar
  1½ cups water

Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until thickened (about 10
min.). Cool.

[Illustration: Date Bars ... perfect pals for good hot coffee or tea]


PRUNE-ORANGE BARS

Follow (KEY) recipe above using


PRUNE-ORANGE FILLING

Mix together in saucepan ...

  3 cups cut-up cooked prunes (drained)
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup orange juice
  2 tbsp. lemon juice
  2 tbsp. grated orange rind

Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until thickened (about 10
min.). Cool.


DATE-APRICOT BARS

Follow (KEY) recipe above using


DATE-APRICOT FILLING

Mix together in saucepan ...

  1 cup cut-up dates
  2 cups mashed, cooked, dried apricots (drained)
  ½ cup sugar
  2 tbsp. of the apricot juice

Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until thickened (about 5
min.). Cool.


★ HAZELNUT BARS

  _Crusty, macaroony._

  _Old-time German party cookies that keep beautifully._

Beat in top of double boiler until stiff ...

  2 large egg whites

Beat in gradually ...

  1 cup sugar

Fold in ...

  1 tbsp. GOLD MEDAL Flour

Cook over boiling water 3 min., stirring constantly. Remove from over
hot water.

Blend in ...

  1 tsp. vanilla
  1½ cups coarsely ground unblanched filberts (_hazelnuts_)

Spread dough smoothly ¼″ thick in ungreased paper-lined oblong pan (9
× 13 × 2″). With fingers, pat top gently with warm water. Bake until
top looks dull. While warm, cut into bars 1½″ × 2″. Cool slightly,
then turn paper over (bars and all). Dampen entire surface with cold
water. When water penetrates paper, bars are easily removed. If
desired, place two bars together with a butter icing between (_see
Burnt Butter Icing, p. 18_).

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 15 to 20 min.

AMOUNT: 32 single bars, 1½″ × 2″.




=ROLLED= COOKIES


[Sidenote: Pat ’em, and roll ’em and sugar for tea.]


HOW TO MAKE ROLLED COOKIES (preliminary steps on pp. 14-15)

[Illustration:
  =1= To prevent “sticking,” slip a canvas cover over board, and
  stockinet over rolling pin. Rub flour into the covers.]

[Illustration:
  =2= Roll lightly, small amount dough at a time ... keeping the rest
  chilled. Roll very thin for crisp cookies.]

[Illustration:
  =3= Cut as many cookies from each rolling as possible. Dip cooky
  cutter in flour, then shake it and cut.]

=Short cut=: instead of rolling it, drop dough and flatten with
glass. See page 40.


★ SUGAR COOKIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Crispy, thin, flavorful._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1½ cup soft shortening (half butter)
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 egg

Stir in ...

  1 tbsp. milk or cream
  1 tsp. flavoring (vanilla or lemon or a combination of the two)

Sift together and stir in ...

  1¼ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¼ tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt

Chill dough. Roll very thin (¹⁄₁₆″). Cut into desired shapes. Place
on lightly greased baking sheet, and sprinkle with sugar. Bake until
delicately browned.

TEMPERATURE: 425° (hot oven).

TIME: Bake 5 to 7 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2½″ cookies.


LEMON SUGAR COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ in place of vanilla, use 2 tsp. grated
lemon rind and 1 tsp. lemon juice.


NUT SUGAR COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix into the dough 1 cup finely chopped
nuts.


★ RICH SUGAR COOKIES

_Extra tender ... a flavor favorite!_

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ use ½ cup sugar in place of ¾ cup. Use
1 tsp. cream of tartar and ½ tsp. soda in place of the baking powder.


CARAWAY COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ omit vanilla, sift ½ tsp. nutmeg with
the dry ingredients, and mix 1 tsp. caraway seeds into the dough.


CHOCOLATE PINWHEELS

  _Fascinating whirls of dark and light ... an unusual taste delight._

Follow (KEY) recipe above or recipe for Rich Sugar Cookies. Divide dough
into 2 equal parts. Into 1 part, blend 1 sq. unsweetened chocolate (1
oz.), melted and cooled. Chill. Roll out white dough 9″ × 12″. Roll
out chocolate dough same size and lay on top of white dough. Roll
the double layer of dough gently until ³⁄₁₆″ thick. Roll up tightly,
beginning at wide side, into a roll 12″ long and 2″ in diameter.
Chill. Slice ⅛″ thick. Place slices a little apart on lightly greased
baking sheet. Bake.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2″ cookies.

[Sidenote: Merrily we roll the dough ... for parties.]


BUTTER COOKIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Crisp, with the true buttery flavor, but not sweet._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft butter
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg

Stir in ...

  3 tsp. flavoring (vanilla, lemon, etc.)

Sift together and stir in ...

  3 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  almond or pecan halves

Chill dough. Roll very thin (¹⁄₁₆″). Cut into desired shapes. Place
on ungreased baking sheet. Press blanched almond or pecan half into
top of each cooky. If glazed cooky is desired, brush mixture of 1 egg
yolk and 2 tbsp. water over top of cookies before baking. Bake until
they are delicately browned.

TEMPERATURE: 425° (hot oven).

TIME: Bake 5 to 7 min.

AMOUNT: About 7 doz. 2″ cookies.


COOKIES FOR PARTIES

_Delightful for all sorts of special occasions._

Follow (KEY) recipe for Sugar Cookies on above, or (KEY) recipe for Butter
Cookies above. Cut and decorate cookies for special occasions as
follows:


HEART COOKIES

_For special Valentines._

[Illustration]

Cut with heart-shaped cutter. Brush lightly with a little beaten egg
white. Then sprinkle with red sugar. Bake.

Cut round cookies. Place a tiny red candy heart in center of each.
Bake.

Cut dough with two heart-shaped cutters, one smaller than the other.
Lay a smaller heart on each of the larger ones and bake each pair as
_one_ cooky. When baked, ice the smaller heart with red or pink icing.


[Illustration]

CHERRY AND HATCHET COOKIES

_For George Washington’s Birthday._

Cut small round cherries from red candied cherries and stick them on
baked cookies in sprays of three, with little stems and leaves of
green citron.

Cut cookies with hatchet-shaped cooky cutter. Or stick little candy
hatchets on cookies.


PLACE CARDS OR FAVORS

_For children’s parties._

Roll dough ⅛″ thick. Cut into 2″ × 3″ oblong shapes. Bake. When
cookies are cool, write names on them with melted chocolate or
colored icing.

[Illustration]


FLOWER COOKIES

_For Easter, spring and summer parties._

[Illustration]

Color dough pink or yellow. Cut cookies with little scalloped
cutters, for petal effect. Brush with egg white and sprinkle with
pink or yellow sugar before baking. Bits of candied orange peel or
yellow gum drops may be used for yellow centers.

Make flower and rosette shapes by forcing the dough through a cooky
press.


DECORATING ICING

Into 1 cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar, stir just enough water
(about 1 tbsp.) to make icing easy to force through pastry tube—yet
hold its shape. Tint if desired with a few drops of food coloring.
(Pile into pastry tube and squeeze.)


COOKIES WITH FACES

_For Hallowe’en._

[Illustration]

Follow recipe for soft molasses cookies such as Gingies on page 34.
Tint the Decorating Icing (_above_) orange. Then force it through a
pastry tube or paper cornucopia to make faces with eyes, nose, mouth,
and hair.

[Sidenote: Little taste-tempters in fascinating shapes.]


FILLED COOKIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Tender, creamy white turnovers hold luscious fillings._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening
  1 cup sugar
  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  2 tbsp. thick cream
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  2½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¼ tsp. soda
  ½ tsp. salt

Chill dough. Roll very thin (¹⁄₁₆″). Cut 3″ rounds or squares. Place
on lightly greased baking sheet. Place a rounded teaspoonful of
desired cooled filling (_below_) on each. Fold over like a turnover,
pressing edges together with floured tines of a fork or tip of
finger. Bake until delicately browned.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 3″ cookies.


FILLED COOKIES IN FANCY SHAPES

[Illustration]

Follow (KEY) recipe above—but cut dough with scalloped round cooky cutter
or with heart, diamond, or 2½″ cutter of any desired shape, cutting
2 alike for each filled cooky. To give a decorative effect, cut the
center out of the top cooky with a tiny cutter of heart, star, or
scalloped round shape. Place the bottom pieces on lightly greased
baking sheet. Spread desired filling (_see below_) on each ...
covering up to edge. Place on the top pieces. Press edges together.

AMOUNT: 4 doz. 2½″ filled cookies.

[Illustration:
  Spread filling almost to the edges ... when making filled cookies.
  To keep the filling in, press edges of filled cookies together with
  the fingers or with floured tines of a fork.]


POINSETTIAS

_A smart new favorite for the holidays._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and roll chilled dough ⅛″ thick. Cut in 3″
squares. Place on lightly greased baking sheet. Cut with sharp knife
from corners of each square almost to center (making 4 triangular
sections in each square). In center, place 1 teaspoonful cooled Prune
Filling (_below_). Pick up corresponding corner of each triangular
section, and fold over center filling. Press gently in center to hold
4 points together.

(_See diagrams below._)

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. poinsettia cookies.

[Illustration]


FIG BARS

_Plump with fruity filling._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and roll one half of dough ⅛″ thick. Cut into 4
long strips (3½″ × 12″). Spread ⅓ to ½ cup Fig Filling (_below_) on
each strip lengthwise, covering only ½ of strip except for a ¼″ edge.
Lift this edge up and stick it to filling. Quickly flop the uncovered
half of strip over the filling, folding it under at edge. Seal the
2 edges together securely. With sharp knife, cut into bars 2″ long.
Place 1″ apart on lightly greased baking sheet.

AMOUNT: 2 doz. 2″ bars.

[Sidenote: Luscious fruity fillings ... to suit every taste.]

[Illustration: Filled cooky favorites.]


RAISIN, FIG, _AND_ DATE FILLING

Mix together in saucepan ...

  ½ cup raisins, finely cut up
  ½ cup figs, finely cut up
  ½ cup dates, finely cut up
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup water
  2 tbsp. lemon juice

Cook slowly, stirring constantly, until thickened (about 5 min.).
Cool.

AMOUNT: Filling for 4 doz. filled cookies.


RAISIN, FIG, _OR_ DATE FILLING

In recipe above for Raisin, Fig, _and_ Date Filling, use 1½ cups
raisins, _or_ figs, _or_ dates ... in place of the combination of the
three.


PINEAPPLE FILLING

Mix together in saucepan ...

  1 cup sugar
  4 tbsp. GOLD MEDAL Flour

Stir in ...

  1½ cups well drained crushed pineapple (no. 2 can)
  4 tbsp. lemon juice
  3 tbsp. butter
  ¼ tsp. nutmeg
  ¾ cup pineapple juice

Cook slowly, stirring constantly, until thickened (5 to 10 min.).
Cool.

AMOUNT: Filling for 4 doz. filled cookies.

[Illustration:
  Clean sticky fruits from your food grinder quickly and easily by
  running a few small pieces of dry bread through it.]


PRUNE FILLING

Mix together in saucepan ...

  1⅓ cups mashed cooked prunes (2 cups uncooked)
  ½ cup sugar
  2 tbsp. lemon juice

Cook slowly, stirring constantly, until thickened (about 4 min.).

AMOUNT: Fills 5 doz. Poinsettias (p. 32).


★ HIS MOTHER’S OATMEAL COOKIES

  _Crispy, nutty-flavored cookies ... sandwiched together with jelly
  or jam._

  _Nora M. Young of Cleveland, Ohio, won a prize in the “plain cooky
  class” on these. Wonderful for lunch box and cooky jar._

[Illustration]

Mix together ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. salt
  3 cups rolled oats

Cut in until mixture is well blended ...

  1 cup shortening (part butter)

Stir in ...

  1 tsp. soda dissolved in ⅓ cup milk (sweet or sour)
  1½ cups brown sugar

Chill dough. Roll out ⅛″ thick. Cut into desired shapes. Place on
ungreased baking sheet. Bake until lightly browned. When cool, and
just before serving, put together in pairs with jelly or jam between.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2½″ double cookies.

[Sidenote: Old-time goodies every home should know.]


★ GINGIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

  _Soft and puffy ... true old-fashioned ginger cookies._

  _A happy tradition at the famous Girard College, Philadelphia,
  Pennsylvania. The boys hoard them ... old grads long for them._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ⅓ cup soft shortening
  1 cup brown sugar
  1½ cups black molasses

Stir in ...

  ½ cup cold water

Sift together and stir in ...

  6 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. salt
  1 tsp. allspice
  1 tsp. ginger
  1 tsp. cloves
  1 tsp. cinnamon

Stir in ...

  2 tsp. soda dissolved in 3 tbsp. cold water

Chill dough. Roll out very thick (½″). Cut with 2½″ round cutter.
Place far apart on lightly greased baking sheet. Bake until, when
touched lightly with finger, no imprint remains.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 15 to 18 min.

AMOUNT: 2⅔ doz. fat, puffy 2½″ cookies.


[Illustration]


FROSTED GINGIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and frost when cool with Simple White Icing
(_recipe below_).


SIMPLE WHITE ICING

Blend together 1 cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar, ¼ tsp. salt, ½
tsp. vanilla, and enough milk or water to make easy to spread (about
1½ tbsp.). Part of icing may be colored by adding a drop or two of
food coloring.


GINGERBREAD BOYS

_Make holidays gayer than ever._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—and mix in 1 more cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL
Flour. Chill dough. Roll out very thick (½″). Grease cardboard
gingerbread boy pattern, place on the dough, and cut around it with
a sharp knife. Or use a gingerbread boy cutter. With a pancake
turner, carefully transfer gingerbread boys to lightly greased baking
sheet. Press raisins into dough for eyes, nose, mouth, and shoe and
cuff buttons. Use bits of candied cherries or red gum drops for
coat buttons; strips of citron for tie. Bake. Cool slightly, then
carefully remove from baking sheet. With white icing, make outlines
for collar, cuffs, belt, and shoes.

AMOUNT: About 12 Gingerbread Boys.


★ STONE JAR MOLASSES COOKIES

_Crisp and brown ... without a bit of sugar._

Heat to boiling point ...

  1 cup molasses

Remove from heat

Stir ...

  ½ cup shortening
  1 tsp. soda

Sift together and stir in ...

  2¼ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1¾ tsp. baking powder
  1 tsp. salt
  1½ tsp. ginger

Chill dough. Roll out very thin (¹⁄₁₆″). Cut into desired shapes.
Bake until, when touched lightly, no imprint remains. (Over-baking
gives a bitter taste.)

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 5 to 7 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2½″ cookies.


PATTERN FOR GINGER BREAD BOY

Trace on tissue paper. Then cut pattern from cardboard. Place greased
pattern on dough. Cut around it with a sharp knife. Other cooky
patterns can be made in same way.

[Illustration]

To make “dancing” Gingerbread boys ... bend the legs and arms into
“action” positions when you place them on baking sheet (as shown in
small figures above).


Packing cookies successfully for mailing

=1= Select heavy box, lined with waxed paper. Use plenty of filler
(crushed wrapping or tissue paper, or unbuttered popcorn or Cheerios).

=2= Wrap each cooky separately ... in waxed paper. Or place cookies
back-to-back in pairs ... then wrap each pair.

[Illustration]

=3= Pad bottom of box with filler. Fit wrapped cookies into box
closely, in layers.

=4= Use filler between layers to prevent crushing of cookies.

[Illustration]

=5= Cover with paper doily, add card, and pad top with crushed paper.
Pack tightly so contents will not shake around.

=6= Wrap box tightly with heavy paper and cord. Address plainly with
permanent ink ... covering address with Scotch tape or colorless nail
polish. Mark the box plainly: “PERISHABLE.”

[Illustration: Festive Christmas Cookies

  ★ 1 Sandbakelser

  ★ 2 Spritz Rosettes

  ★ 3 Merry Christmas Cookies, Trees, Stars, etc.

  ★ 4 Nurnberger

  ★ 5 Almond Crescents

  ★ 6 Lebkuchen

  ★ 7 Scotch Shortbread

  ★ 8 Berliner Kranser

  ★ 9 Finska Kakor

  ★ 10 Russian Tea Cakes]

[Sidenote: Gay shapes ... for holiday cheer.]


MERRY CHRISTMAS COOKIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Soft, cushiony cookies, dark or light._

DARK DOUGH.... _For animal shapes, toy shapes, and boy and girl
figures._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ⅓ cup soft shortening
  ⅓ cup brown sugar
  1 egg
  ⅔ cup molasses

Sift together and stir in ...

  2¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1 tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt
  2 tsp. cinnamon
  1 tsp. ginger

Chill dough. Roll out thick (¼″). Cut into desired shapes. Place
1″ apart on lightly greased baking sheet. Bake until, when touched
lightly with finger, no imprint remains. When cool, ice and decorate
as desired.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2½″ cookies.


LIGHT DOUGH

_For bells, stockings, stars, wreaths, etc._

Follow (KEY) recipe for Dark Dough above _except_ substitute honey for
molasses, and granulated sugar for brown. Use 1 tsp. vanilla in place
of cinnamon and ginger.


TO HANG ON CHRISTMAS TREE

Just loop a piece of green string and press ends into the dough at
the top of each cooky before baking. Bake with string-side _down_ on
pan.

[Illustration]


TO DECORATE

Use recipe for Decorating Icing (p. 31) (thin the icing for
spreading). For decorating ideas, see picture on preceding page.
Sugar in coarse granules for decorating is available at bakery supply
houses.


STARS

[Illustration]

Cover with white icing. Sprinkle with sky blue sugar.


WREATHS

[Illustration]

Cut with scalloped cutter ... using smaller cutter for center.
Cover with white icing. Sprinkle with green sugar and decorate with
clusters of berries made of red icing—leaves of green icing—to give
the realistic effect of holly wreaths.


BELLS

[Illustration]

Outline with red icing. Make clapper of red icing. (A favorite with
children.)


STOCKINGS

[Illustration]

Sprinkle colored sugar on toes and heels before baking. Or mark heels
and toes of baked cookies with icing of some contrasting color.


CHRISTMAS TREES

[Illustration]

Spread with white icing ... then sprinkle with green sugar. Decorate
with silver dragées and tiny colored candies.


TOYS

[Illustration]

(Drum, car, jack-in-the-box, etc.): Outline shapes with white or
colored icing.


ANIMALS

[Illustration]

(Reindeer, camel, dog, kitten, etc.): Pipe icing on animals to give
effect of bridles, blankets, etc.


BOYS AND GIRLS

[Illustration]

Pipe figures with an icing to give desired effects: eyes, noses,
buttons, etc.

[Sidenote: “Old country” Christmas treasures.]


LEBKUCHEN ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_The famous old-time German Christmas Honey Cakes._

Mix together and bring to a boil ...

  ½ cup honey
  ½ cup molasses

Cool thoroughly

Stir in ...

  ¾ cup brown sugar
  1 egg
  1 tbsp. lemon juice
  1 tsp. grated lemon rind

[Illustration]

Sift together and stir in ...

  2¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. soda
  1 tsp. cinnamon
  1 tsp. cloves
  1 tsp. allspice
  1 tsp. nutmeg

Mix in ...

  ⅓ cup cut-up citron
  ⅓ cup chopped nuts

Chill dough overnight. Roll small amount at a time, keeping rest
chilled. Roll out ¼″ thick and cut into oblongs 1½ × 2½″. Place one
inch apart on greased baking sheet. Bake until when touched lightly
no imprint remains. While cookies bake, make Glazing Icing (_recipe
below_). Brush it over cookies the minute they are out of oven. Then
quickly remove from baking sheet. Cool and store to mellow.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2″ × 3″ cookies.


GLAZING ICING

Boil together 1 cup sugar and ½ cup water until first indication of a
thread appears (230°). Remove from heat. Stir in ¼ cup confectioners’
sugar and brush hot icing thinly over cookies. (_When icing gets
sugary, reheat slightly, adding a little water until clear again._)


★ NURNBERGER

  _Round, light-colored honey cakes from the famed old City of Toys._

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ in place of honey and molasses use 1
cup honey; and reduce spices (using ¼ tsp. cloves, ½ tsp. allspice,
and ½ tsp. nutmeg ... with 1 tsp. cinnamon).

Roll out the _chilled_ dough ¼″ thick. Cut into 2″ rounds. Place on
greased baking sheet. With fingers, round up cookies a bit toward
center. Press in blanched almond halves around the edge like petals
of a daisy. Use a round piece of citron for each center. Bake just
until set. _Immediately_ brush with Glazing Icing (_above_). Remove
from baking sheet. Cool, and store to mellow.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2½″ cookies.


TO “MELLOW” COOKIES

  ... store in an air-tight container for a few days. Add a cut
  orange or apple; but fruit molds, so change it frequently.


=ZUCKER HÜTCHEN= (Little Sugar Hats)

  _From the collection of Christmas recipes by the Kohler Woman’s
  Club of Kohler, Wisconsin._

[Illustration]

Mix together thoroughly ...

  6 tbsp. soft butter
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg yolk

Stir in ...

  2 tbsp. milk

Sift together and stir in ...

  1⅜ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  ¼ cup finely cut-up citron

Chill dough. Roll thin (⅛″). Cut into 2″ rounds. Heap 1 tsp. Meringue
Frosting (_recipe below_) in center of each round to make it look
like the crown of a hat. Place 1″ apart on greased baking sheet. Bake
until delicately browned.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2″ cookies.


MERINGUE FROSTING

Beat 1 egg white until frothy. Beat in gradually 1½ cups _sifted_
confectioners’ sugar and beat until frosting holds its shape. Stir in
½ cup finely chopped blanched almonds.

[Sidenote: Decorative favorites from lands afar.]


SCOTCH SHORTBREAD

  _Old-time delicacy from Scotland ... crisp, thick, buttery._

[Illustration]

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft butter
  ⅝ cup sugar (½ cup plus 2 tbsp.)

Stir in ...

  2½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour

Mix thoroughly with hands. Chill dough. Roll out ⅓ to ½″ thick. Cut
into fancy shapes (small leaves, ovals, squares, etc.). Flute edges
if desired by pinching between fingers as for pie crust. Place on
ungreased baking sheet. Bake. (The tops do not brown during baking
... nor does shape of the cookies change.)

TEMPERATURE: 300° (slow oven).

TIME: Bake 20 to 25 min.

AMOUNT: About 2 doz. 1″ × 1½″ cookies.


★ FINSKA KAKOR (Finnish Cakes)

_Nut-studded butter strips from Finland._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ¾ cup soft butter
  ¼ cup sugar
  1 tsp. almond flavoring

Stir in ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour

Mix thoroughly with hands. Chill dough. Roll out ¼″ thick. Cut into
strips 2½″ long and ¾″ wide. Brush tops lightly with 1 egg white,
slightly beaten. Sprinkle with mixture of 1 tbsp. sugar and ⅓ cup
finely chopped blanched almonds. Carefully transfer (several strips
at a time) to ungreased baking sheet. Bake just until cookies begin
to turn a very delicate golden brown.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 17 to 20 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2½″ × ¾″ cookies.

[Illustration:
  _The ring of sleigh bells fills the air as everyone races to church
  on Christmas Day in Finland._]


SANDBAKELSER (Sand Tarts)

  _Fragile almond-flavored shells of Swedish origin, made in copper
  molds of varied designs._

Put through fine knife of food grinder twice ...

  *⅓ cup blanched almonds
  *4 unblanched almonds

Mix in thoroughly ...

  ⅞ cup soft butter (1 cup minus 2 tbsp.)
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 small egg white, unbeaten

Stir in ...

  1¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour


*In place of the almonds, you may use 1 tsp. vanilla flavoring and
1 tsp. almond flavoring.

Chill dough. Press dough _into_ Sandbakels molds (or tiny fluted tart
forms) to coat inside. Place on ungreased baking sheet. Bake until
very delicately browned. Tap molds on table to loosen cookies and
turn them out of the molds.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 12 to 15 min.

AMOUNT: About 3 doz. cookies.




=MOLDED= COOKIES


[Sidenote: Mold ’em fast with a fork or glass!]


=HOW TO MAKE MOLDED COOKIES= (preliminary steps on pp. 14-15)

[Illustration:
  =1= With hands, roll dough into balls or into long, pencil-thick
  rolls, as indicated in recipe.]

[Illustration:
  =2= Flatten balls of dough with bottom of a glass dipped in flour
  (or with a damp cloth around it), or with a fork—crisscross.]

[Illustration:
  =3= Cut pencil-thick strips ... and shape as directed ... as for
  Almond Crescents (p. 41) or Berliner Kranser (p. 42).]


DATE-OATMEAL COOKIES

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ¾ cup soft shortening (half butter)
  1 cup brown sugar
  2 eggs
  3 tbsp. milk
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¾ tsp. soda
  1 tsp. salt

Stir in ...

  2 cups rolled oats
  1½ cups cut-up dates
  ¾ cup chopped nuts

Chill dough. Roll into balls size of large walnuts. Place 3″ apart on
lightly greased baking sheet. Flatten (to ¼″) with bottom of glass
dipped in flour. Bake until lightly browned.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 2½″ cookies.


★ PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES ( (KEY)  Recipe)

_Perfect for the Children’s Hour._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening (half butter)
  ½ cup peanut butter
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ cup brown sugar
  1 egg

Sift together and stir in ...

  1¼ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  ¾ tsp. soda
  ¼ tsp. salt

Chill dough. Roll into balls size of large walnuts. Place 3″ apart on
lightly greased baking sheet. Flatten with fork dipped in flour ...
crisscross. Bake until set ... but not hard.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 3 doz. 2½″ cookies.


HONEY PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe above—_except_ use only ¼ cup shortening, and in
place of brown sugar use ½ cup honey.

[Illustration]

[Sidenote: Sprightly tea cakes for friends and family.]


THUMBPRINT COOKIES

  _Nut-rich ... the thumb dents filled with sparkling jelly._

  _I’m as delighted with this quaint addition to our cooky
  collection, from Ken MacKenzie, as is the collector of old glass
  when a friend presents her with some early thumbprint goblets._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening (half butter)
  ¼ cup brown sugar
  1 egg yolk
  ½ tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  1 cup _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¼ tsp. salt

Roll into 1″ balls. Dip in slightly beaten egg whites. Roll in finely
chopped nuts (¾ cup). Place about 1″ apart on ungreased baking sheet.
Bake 5 min. Remove from oven. Quickly press thumb gently on top of
each cooky. Return to oven and bake 8 min. longer. Cool.

Place in thumbprints a bit of chopped candied fruit, sparkling jelly,
or tinted confectioners’ sugar icing.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 5 min., then 8 min.

AMOUNT: About 2 doz. 1½″ cookies.


★ ENGLISH TEA CAKES

_Tender, flavorful tidbits with a sugary glaze._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  ½ cup soft shortening (half butter)
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 egg
  3 tbsp. milk

Sift together and stir in ...

  1¾ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  1½ tsp. baking powder
  ¼ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  ½ cup finely cut sliced citron
  ½ cup currants or raisins, cut-up

Chill dough. Roll into balls the size of walnuts. Dip tops in
slightly beaten egg white, then sugar. Place sugared-side-up 2″ apart
on ungreased baking sheet. Bake until delicately browned. The balls
flatten some in baking and become glazed.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 12 to 15 min.

AMOUNT: About 3 doz. 1½″ cookies.


ALMOND CRESCENTS

_Richly delicate, buttery. Party favorites._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening (half butter)
  ⅓ cup sugar
  ⅔ cup ground blanched almonds

Sift together and work in ...

  1⅔ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¼ tsp. salt

Chill dough. Roll with hands pencil-thick. Cut in 2½″ lengths. Form
into crescents on ungreased baking sheet. Bake until set ... not
brown. Cool on pan. While slightly warm, carefully dip in 1 cup
confectioners’ sugar and 1 tsp. cinnamon mixed.

TEMPERATURE: 325° (slow mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 14 to 16 min.

AMOUNT: About 5 doz. 2½″ cookies.


LEMON SNOWDROPS

_Refreshing, lemony ... with snowy icing._

Follow recipe for English Tea Cakes above—_except_ use 2 tbsp. lemon
juice and 1 tbsp. water in place of the milk. Add 2 tsp. grated lemon
rind. Omit citron and currants. Mix in ½ cup chopped nuts. Chill
dough. Roll into balls and bake. Then roll in confectioners’ sugar.


BUTTER FINGERS

_Nut-flavored, rich buttery party cookies._

Follow recipe for Almond Crescents—_except_ in place of almonds use
black walnuts or other nuts, _chopped_. Cut into finger lengths and
bake. While still warm, roll in confectioners’ sugar. Cool, and roll
in the sugar again.

[Sidenote: Festive cookies for the holidays ... ideal for Christmas
boxes.]


RUSSIAN TEA CAKES

  _Crunchy, sugared, nut-filled snowballs._

  _This favorite with men came to us from a man. Carl Burkland, a
  radio executive of New York City, made them himself for me one
  Christmas season._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft butter
  ½ cup _sifted_ confectioners’ sugar
  1 tsp. vanilla

Sift together and stir in ...

  2¼ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ¼ tsp. salt

Mix in ...

  ¾ cup finely chopped nuts

Chill dough. Roll into 1″ balls. Place 2½″ apart on ungreased baking
sheet. Bake until set, but not brown. While still warm, roll in
confectioners’ sugar. Cool. Roll in sugar again.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 4 doz. 1½″ cookies.


MANDEL KAGER (Almond Cookies)

  _These little cakes of intriguing flavor are always on hand for
  Norway’s holiday festivities._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening (part butter)
  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg

Sift together and stir in ...

  1⅔ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour
  ½ tsp. baking powder
  1 tbsp. cinnamon (3 tsp.)
  1 to 1½ tsp. ground cardamom

Mix in ...

  ½ cup chopped toasted almonds

Chill dough. Roll into 1″ balls. Place on ungreased baking sheet.
Flatten slightly. Brush tops with _egg glaze_ (1 slightly beaten egg
yolk mixed with 1 tbsp. water). Top each with a blanched almond half.
Bake until golden brown.

TEMPERATURE: 375° (quick mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 3½ doz. 1½″ cookies.

[Illustration: Life-size candid camera shot of a Berliner Krans.]

_All you have to do—_to shape a Berliner Krans: Form a circle and
  bring one end over and through.

[Illustration]

If rich dough splits apart or seems crumbly, let it get slightly warm
or work in a few drops of liquid until the dough sticks together.


=BERLINER KRANSER= (Berlin Wreaths)

  _Delicious and buttery, these gay little wreaths are made each
  holiday season in Norway._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1½ cups soft shortening (half butter)
  1 cup sugar
  2 tsp. grated orange rind
  2 eggs

Stir in ...

  4 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour

Chill dough. Break off small pieces and roll to pencil size about
6″ long and ¼″ thick. Form each piece into a circle, bringing one
end over and through in a single knot. (_See sketch above._) Leave
½″ end on each side. Place on ungreased baking sheet. Brush tops
with _meringue_ (made by beating 1 egg white until stiff, gradually
beating in 2 tbsp. sugar). Press bits of red candied cherries on
center of knot for holly berries. Add little jagged leaves cut out of
green citron. Bake until set ... but not brown.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 10 to 12 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. 2″ cookies.




=PRESS= COOKIES


[Sidenote: Buttery morsels in intriguing shapes.]


HOW TO MAKE COOKIES WITH A PRESS

Force dough through a cooky press (or pastry tube). Follow directions
accompanying cooky press. Hold the press upright, and force out the
dough until it appears at the edge of the mold ... then lift the
press away.

[Illustration]


SPRITZ ( (KEY)  Recipe) (“Spurted out of a press”)

_Crisp, fragile, buttery-tasting curlicues._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft butter
  ⅔ cup sugar
  3 egg yolks
  1 tsp. flavoring (almond or vanilla) or 4 tbsp. grated almonds.

Work in with the hands ...

  2½ cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour

Chill dough. Force through cooky press onto ungreased baking sheet
in letter S’s, rosettes, fluted bars, or other desired shapes. Bake
until set ... but not brown.

TEMPERATURE: 400° (mod. hot oven).

TIME: Bake 7 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. cookies.


CHOCOLATE SPRITZ

Follow (KEY) recipe above—but blend into the shortening mixture 4 sq.
unsweetened chocolate (4 oz.), melted.

  Have baking sheet cold before forcing cooky dough through press
  onto it. If sheet is not cold, the fat in the dough will melt and
  the cookies will pull away from the sheet when the press is lifted.


BUTTER COOKIES

Follow (KEY) recipe for Butter Cookies on p. 31. Force chilled dough
through cooky press onto ungreased baking sheet in form of flowers,
wreaths, or any desired shapes.

[Illustration:
  Dough for press cookies may be rolled out and cut into desired
  shapes. For wreaths, cut with scalloped cooky cutter ... then cut
  out center with a smaller sized cutter.]


★ ALMOND WREATHS

_Beautiful almond-topped garlands._

Mix together thoroughly ...

  1 cup soft shortening (mostly butter)
  ¾ cup confectioners’ sugar
  2 egg yolks
  1 egg white
  1 tsp. vanilla
  ¼ tsp. salt

Sift together and work in with the hands ...

  2 cups _sifted_ GOLD MEDAL Flour

Chill dough. Force through cooky press onto ungreased baking sheet
in shape of wreaths. Brush wreaths with slightly beaten egg white.
Sprinkle with mixture of 2 tbsp. sugar, ¼ tsp. cinnamon, and ¼ cup
very finely chopped blanched almonds. Bake until set ... but not
brown.


TO DECORATE

Press bits of red or green candied cherry into top of wreaths to
simulate a bow.

TEMPERATURE: 350° (mod. oven).

TIME: Bake 8 to 10 min.

AMOUNT: About 6 doz. cookies.




ALPHABETICAL INDEX


      General Methods, pages 14 and 15


      Almond Crescents, 41

      Almond Macaroons, 21

      Almond Paste, 21

      Almond Wreaths, 43

      Animal Cookies, 37

      Applesauce Cookies, 17


      Bar Cookies, 26

      Bell Cookies, 37

      Berliner Kranser, 42

      Boy and Girl Cookies, 37

      Brazil or Pecan Jumbles, 20

      Brown Sugar Drops, 16

      Brownies, 26

      Burnt Butter Icing, 18

      Busy-Day Coconut Drops, 16

      Busy-Day Nut Drops, 16

      Butter Cookies, 31 and 43

      Butter Fingers, 41

      Butterscotch Cookies, 18


      Caraway Cookies, 30

      Cherry and Hatchet Cookies, 31

      Cherry-Coconut Macaroons, 21

      Chocolate Chip Cookies, 20

      Chocolate-Coconut Macaroons, 21

      Chocolate Cream Drops, 18

      Chocolate-Frosted Brownies, 26

      Chocolate Icing, 18

      Chocolate Pinwheels, 30

      Chocolate Refrigerator Cookies, 22

      Chocolate Spritz, 43

      Christmas Tree Cookies, 37

      Coconut Cream Drops, 18

      Coconut Jumbles, 20

      Coconut-Lemon Bars, 28

      Coconut Macaroons, 21

      Coffee-and-Spice Drops, 17

      Cookies with Faces, 31


      Dainty Tea Brownies, 26

      Date-and-Nut Squares, 27

      Date-Apricot Bars, 29

      Date Bars or Matrimonial Cake, 29

      Date-Nut Refrigerator Cookies, 22

      Date-Oatmeal Cookies, 40

      Decorating Icing, 31

      Drop Cookies, 16


      English Tea Cakes, 41


      Fig Bars, 32

      Filled Bar Cookies, 29

      Filled Cookies, 32

      Filled Cookies in Fancy Shapes, 32

      Finska Kakor, 39

      Flower Cookies, 31

      Frosted Gingies, 34

      Fruit-and-Nut Drops, 18


      Ginger Creams, 19

      Ginger Refrigerator Cookies, 23

      Gingerbread Boys, 34

      Gingies, 34

      Glazed Orange Jumbles, 20

      Glazing Icing, 38

      Gold Cookies, 25


      Hazelnut Bars, 29

      Heart Cookies, 31

      Hermits, 17

      His Mother’s Oatmeal Cookies, 33

      Holiday Fruit Cookies, 16

      Honey Peanut Butter Cookies, 40


      Jell-Meringue-Filbert Bars, 28

      Jewelled Cookies, 27


      Lebkuchen, 38

      Lemon Icing, 26

      Lemon Snowdrops, 41

      Lemon Sugar Cookies, 30

      Little Sugar Hats, 38


      Macaroons, 21

      Mandel Kager, 42

      Marie’s Chocolate Icing, 26

      Merry Christmas Cookies, 37

      Mincemeat Cookies, 17

      Miscellaneous Cookies, 25

      Molasses Crinkles, 25

      Molded Cookies, 40

      Monkey-Faced Cookies, 19


      New Northland Cookies, 23

      Nurnberger, 38

      Nut Refrigerator Cookies, 22

      Nut Sugar Cookies, 30


      Oatmeal Drop Cookies, 19

      Oatmeal Refrigerator Cookies, 24

      Old-Fashioned Sour Cream Drops, 18

      Old-Time Cinnamon Jumbles, 20

      Orange-Almond Refrigerator Cookies, 22

      Orange-Chocolate Chip Cookies, 20


      Peanut Butter Cookies, 40

      Peanut Macaroons, 21

      Petticoat Tails, 24

      Pineapple Filling, 33

      Place Cards or Favors, 31

      Plantation Fruit Bars, 26

      Poinsettias, 32

      Press Cookies, 43

      Prune Filling, 33

      Prune-Orange Bars, 29


      Quick Cream Icing, 19


      Raisin, Fig and Date Filling, 33

      Raisin, Fig or Date Filling, 33

      Refrigerator Cookies, 22

      Rich Sugar Cookies, 30

      Rolled Cookies, 30

      Russian Tea Cakes, 42


      Salted Peanut Cookies, 16

      Sandbakelser, 39

      Scotch Shortbread, 39

      Simple White Icing, 34

      Snickerdoodles, 25

      Spiced Prune Drops, 17

      Spritz, 43

      Star Cookies, 37

      Stocking Cookies, 37

      Stone Jar Molasses Cookies, 34

      Sugar Cookies, 30

      Sugar Jumbles, 20


      3-in-1 Jumbles, 20

      Thumbprint Cookies, 41

      Toffee-Nut Bars, 28

      Toy Cookies, 37

      Tutti-Frutti Surprises, 27


      Walnut Squares, 27

      Washboards, 25

      Wheaties-Coconut Macaroons, 21

      Wheaties Drop Cookies, 17

      Wreath Cookies, 37


      Zucker Hütchen, 38




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  In places sections have been moved to correct for content spread
  across two pages in the original. Cases where significant changes
  have been made are noted below.

  The indexes were not checked for proper alphabetization or correct page
  references.

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  Some hyphens in words have been silently removed, some added,
  when a predominant preference was found in the original book.

  Except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the text,
  and inconsistent or archaic usage, have been retained.

  Pp 22,23: Steps 3 and 4 of REFRIGERATOR COOKIES have been moved from
            page 23 to be with 1 and 2 on page 22.
  Pg    27: “left” replaced with “above”
  Pg 26,27: Recipe for Lemon Icing moved from Pg 27 to be with
            Plantation Fruit Bars Pg 26
  Pg    26: "next page" changed to "below" to reflect move of Lemon Icing
  Pp    31: “opposite page” replaced with “above page”
  Pp    32: “opposite page” replaced with “below”
     Index: “Bar Bookies” replaced with “Bar Cookies”
